The last thing that we're gonna cover
in this animation section is a Nuxt
page transition.
I mentioned Nuxt offers us like
all of these really amazing things
right out of the box.
One of them is just assumes that you might
wanna transition component for a page so
you're immediately able
to make transitions.
So for review, we have these enter and
leave states,
it's always gonna use page hooks.
So it's basically assuming that
transition component is called page.
And so you can say, page-enter-active,
page-leave-active page-enter-from and
to, and you can state these
things in any CSS file.
So we can create animation for our pages.
And then we can have pages slide across.
Don't make pages slide all the way across.
It's a goofy animation but it's for
the purposes of demonstration.
But you don't have to
do anything in order to
have those hooks, they already have
the hooks available to you in that
page-enter-active and
page-leave-active, which is so nice.
That's really, really cool.
You can also make page
specific animations as well.
So let's say you want all pages
to animate a certain way,
but there's one page you want
to animate a different way.
You can say transition fadeOpacity.
And then declare that either in assets or
in a scoped style within
that same page template.
And then we can do this and
then if we click on the Contact page,
you can see that that one
fades instead of goes across.
So we can do different ones for that.
We also have page specific JavaScript
hooks, which is really awesome.
So it to remember there's like before
enter, enter leave all of these things.
And this is how we typically declare it.
In Nuxt.Js for that page, what we
would say is transition in an object.
And we could state things, we have
transition modes even, we could say,
wait for this one page to move out,
and then let the other page move in.
That's typically really hard to do,
because routing usually doesn't wait for
one state or another.
So in this case,
we have CSS false mode out in.
And then you can work with things the way
that you would have worked with them when
you were working with JavaScript
took in a transition component.
So I can do all sorts of
kind of fancy GSAP things,
do not ever do this [LAUGH] series.
So you could do really goofy things.
But you could also do things that
are really more seamless and nice.
So, what about that single element
that I flipped upside down?
You can still plug in to
that page specific hook and
access different properties if you want.
You don't have to pass in, you pass in
the EL, you could pass in a selector.
You could pass in a ref,
which accesses the DOM nodes or
you could add it to a lifecycle hook.
So the sky is endless,
open, can of worms is open,
something to that effect,
you have a lot available to you.
Now if I was gonna plan, something that
would be coordinated in a really slick
way across all of these
different Nuxt positions,
remember the things that stay constant,
can live in layouts/default.view.
So I have that Nuxt component but remember
I added that navigation component.
So I was able to add a navigation,
above that next component.
It's stayed stable on all the pages.
So let's get fancier.
What we could do is we could be alerted to
when something's changing in that header,
that navigation is the same for
our application.
It's not being reloaded or re rendered.
So I could transition pieces of that
application in next as I change each page.
So I have this demo app,
you can go check out all of the code here.
And there's the live version here
if you want to check it out.
So this whole header is one
unit that uses the same piece.
I'm just plugging in slightly
different pieces as I transition.
So, if I go to this page, she changes
position and we move components around.
And we can move from page
to page because remember,
transitions just take one state and
go to the other state.
It doesn't matter what order they are in.
So I can create these kind of
native like page transitions.
And it can even be dynamic.
So, I switched to this woman instead and
now it goes to this woman and
I can change the state of the application
and make native like animations.